#LyX 1.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 220
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize a4paper
\paperpackage widemarginsa4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Autoadaptation with real-valued genes
\layout Author

Marko Grönroos
\layout Abstract

This document describes a study of autoadaptation with NeHeP evolutinary
 library.
 The system evolves a population of individuals with floating-point genes
 in an environment which changes periodically, so the population has to
 re-adapt to the new environment.
 The real-valued genes have their mutation rates encoded in the genotype,
 so the mutation rates are also evolved.
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

The autoadaptation methods used in this study are based on methods presented
 by Thomas Bäck.
\layout Standard

Autoadaptation is useful for two purposes.
 First, it helps an evolutionary system to find good parameters for itself
 at different times during evolution.
 Second, it helps find optimal evolutionary parameters when the environment
 changes.
\layout Standard

We use the 
\noun on 
NeHeP
\noun default 
 evolutionary algorithm library to conduct these tests.
\layout Section

Description of the system
\layout Standard

The population is evaluated in an environment subclassed from 
\family typewriter 
FloatTestEAEnv
\family default 
 environment in 
\noun on 
NeHeP
\noun default 
 library.
 The environment provides a generic test bench for evolution by implementing
 various test functions that are commonly used in research of evolutionary
 computation.
\layout Section

Results
\layout Section

Conclusions
\layout Standard

The simple autoadaptation scheme proposed by Bäck seems to work well with
 the used test problems.
 It helps the evolutionary algorithm to approach optimum very fast.
 It also helps the evolutionary algorithm to re-adapt its mutation speed
 parameters to quickly evolve towards a new optimum in a periodically changing
 environment.
\the_end
