#LyX 1.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 220
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\use_natbib 0
\use_numerical_citations 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Author

Evolving Solutions for Iterated Prisoners Dilemma
\layout Author

Marko Grönroos
\layout Abstract

This artice describes the Prisoners application for NeHeP evolutionary algorithm
 library.
 The application evolves a strategy for Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma in a
 group of various other standard strategies: Co-operating, Defecting, Tit-for-Ta
t, and random.
 The prisoners compete one-on-one against every other strategy and have
 a memory of three previous decisions.
 An evolved strategy is usually found to yield better results than the Tit-for-T
at strategy.
\layout Section

Introduction
\layout Standard

Prisoner's Dilemma (PD) is a hypothetical situation where two crime partners
 have been arrested for questioning.
 If one of the two blames the other (defects him), and the other stays silent
 (co-operates), the defecting prisoner gets free and the co-operating gets
 5 years of prison.
 If both stay silent, both get 1 year in prison.
 If both blame the other, both get 3 years.
\layout Standard

Iterative Prisoner's Dilemma (IPD) is an extended variant of the PD, where
 each pair of prisoners are questioned for a number of times.
 Each time the prisoners remember the decisions in three previous times
 and can act according to those decisions.
 For example, if the other prisoner defected previously, it is possible
 to revenge that by defecting now.
\layout Standard

The problem belongs to game theory, and is relevant for many fields of natural
 sciences and philosophy, including sociology, economics, biology, ethology,
 and evolutionary theory.
\layout Section

Competing strategies
\layout Standard


\emph on 
Tit-for-tat
\emph default 
 strategy means simply co-operating on the first iteration and after that
 doing what the other prisoner did previously.
 If the other prisoner had co-operated previously, we trust him to co-operate
 again, and if he defected previously, we do not trust him to co-operate
 this time but 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset 

revenge
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset 

 by defecting.
 If the other prisoner always co-operates, both will always get only 1 year.
 If the other prisoner always defects, both always get 3 years.
 If the other prisoner is also a tit-for-tat strategy, both co-operate.
 This strategy is very good when competing against other strategies.
\layout Standard

The real problem is to find an evolutionary strategy that does better, on
 average, than tit-for-tat strategy.
\layout Section

Software architecture
\layout Standard

The following describes the class hierarchy of the application.
\layout Subsection

PDGame
\layout Standard

PDGame is a game object that handles playing the game, that is, records
 decisions from competing strategies, gives the results, and keeps record
 of the history of the decisions.
\layout Subsection

PDStrategy
\layout Standard

PDStrategy is defines an IPD strategy.
\layout Standard

It is sub-classed by TitForTatPDStrategy, RandomPDStrategy, RandomRulePDStrategy
, CooperatingPDStrategy, and DefectingPDStrategy.
\layout Subsection

PrisonerGene
\layout Subsection

PrisonGAEnv
\layout Standard

PrisonGAEnv is an evolutionary environment for evolving individuals.
 It does the actual evaluation of fitnesses by competing the solutions against
 the other IPD strategies.
\layout Section

Experiments
\layout Section

Discussion
\the_end
